So, what we've got here
is an HTML document.
This very beautiful, exciting modern
web page is an HTML document.
And if you wanna see the HTML, we can go
back to the inspector, which is what we
opened first when we clicked Inspect, and
we can see some stuff in this document.
And what we're seeing is an HTML document,
and
what JavaScript is seeing when it
looks at that document is represented
by something called the DOM,
the Document Object Model.
So let's talk about what a document
looks like and what it has in it.
So this is kind of a simple document.
This is similar to the structure you'd
see if you look in the inspector for
this Tic-Tac-Toe page.
So, let us try just to
recap kind of HTML and
understand our own mental
model of how this page,
how this document looks.
Let's try to draw this as
a tree of HTML elements.
So what I'm gonna ask you all to
do is help me draw out a diagram
representing the structure
of this HTML document.
So, what is the top-level
element in this page?
Shout it out, anybody.
>> HTML.
>> Yeah, so the HTML here is the element
that we're working with, and
then lang is an attribute on that element.
So this is maybe just like kind of HTML
structure [LAUGH] here
at the top of this page.
And when I say top, I mean kind of
the highest level element there is on this
page, we have an HTML element with some
attributes on it, including the language.
Great, excellent.
Okay, what is contained, or
we could say children of that element?
Yes?
>> They're asking what about the doctype?
>> What about the doctype?
That is a great question.
So the doctype kind of
defines the document.
And we could say,
technically, that there is
kind of a document that sort of
sits above the HTML element.
But since we're working with HTML
documents, and the doc type declares, hey,
this is an HTML document, we're usually
going to kind of not think about that sort
of meta level of that this is
all contained in a document.
Except that is going to be how
we refer to it in JavaScript.
So the HTML and the document kind of
mentally we can sort of merge together.
But essentially, yes, there is a document,
which then has an HTML element
that contains the content of the page,
and that is a really great point.
So what then else do we have in this page,
what is contained within
this HTML element?
What elements do we have there?
Yeah?
>> The heads and the body.
>> Yes, okay, great.
So we could say we sometimes call
these children of the HTML elements.
So we have a head and a body.
Okay, and then so you'll see there are
some dot, dot, dots here that just sort of
indicate that there's other stuff
contained within, for example, the head.
But what about the body?
Let's dig into that a little bit more.
What children elements do we see
on the body element in this page?
>> Header.
>> Excellent, header, so
we have a header, child, and
this is where every page
is gonna be different.
Maybe you have a header, maybe you don't,
maybe you have other elements there.
And similarly,
that might have some other things going on
inside of it, we have some dot, dot, dots.
And then, what else do we have,
in this case?
>> Div.
>> A div, yes.
What is a div often used for in HTML?
>> Divides things, controls sections.
>> It divides things into, yeah,
so I might not say section
just because there is also a section
element that we might use.
But div is kind of a general purpose
maybe grouping element, we could say,
that collects a bunch of other elements.
So we usually don't just see a div,
we usually see a div with stuff in it.
Yeah, comment from the chat.
>> They're saying a div is a container or
a box.
Brian Holt and his intro to web dev
calls it just kind of like an empty box,
like a cardboard box or something else.
>> Exactly, yeah, yeah.
So a container is a great
way to think of a div.
It's kind of an element that collects
other elements inside of it,
like a moving box.
Yeah, great point.
And so, this is not an HTML course,
cuz there are other great
courses out there for this.
So, we're not gonna be digging into too
much detail about all these different
types of elements that you can
have in an HTML document, or
otherwise said, as you pointed out before,
kind of the content of the page, right?
There are a lot, a lot,
a lot that can be said about HTML.
It's another infinite learning journey.
But suffice it to say that we're mapping
out here the structure of the page
because JavaScript, just like us, when
we read a document like this as humans,
we kind of parse it out in our heads.
We construct our mental image of how
this page is structured that maybe looks
something like this tree.
And JavaScript does that as well.
And so, whatever we can work with an HTML,
JavaScript can also interface with,
we could say or
sort of construct a model of, and
that is what we call
the document object model.
So essentially,
JavaScript creates an object,
which we're gonna talk more about
exactly how objects work later.
But JavaScript creates an entity
that represents this document and
all of the structure inside of it,
all of the content,
all of the other elements that it has.
We will dig into the document that
JavaScript represents this page with.
Let's just quickly go back to
our webpage and our console.
And in our console, if I type the spell
document, it's a special word, that
means the document that we are currently
in, that we're currently looking at.
You'll notice I get some kind
of value with all kinds of
stuff in it that represents
this document to JavaScript.
So if you'd like, feel free to poke
around in this document object that you
can invoke by typing the word
document into the JavaScript console.
We'll talk more about how we can
work with this in JavaScript to
interact with the web page.